---
layout: home
title: Reach Library Documentation
nav_order: 1
---

# The Reach Library 

The Reach system uses virtual reality experiences to identify shoulder limitations and recruit movement patterns that enhance shoulder health. The Reach Library enables partners to develop applications that can send and receive movement data that has been generated by Reach.

The Reach system includes 1) the Reach Shoulder Health VR application, 2) a web portal where end-users can view their progress, and 3) 3rd party games and experiences that interface with Reach APIs. Each of these three components may access Reach databases and API endpoints.

The Reach Shoulder Health experience is downloadable on the Oculus Home application. In order to access the alpha release channel (for the latest dev build) please contact your Reach admin and provide them with your Oculus Gamertag.

## Useful Definitions

Throughout this documentation, you will see references to the terms Volume, Velocity, and Accuracy to describe Reach algorithms and game experiences. In the context of shoulder health, here's a brief primer on each of those terms:

### Volume

In the course of attending to shoulder health, you may encounter the term "range of motion" as a familiar indicator of shoulder mobility and strength. Typically, shoulder health professionals measure and report ranges of motion in terms of degrees of rotation from a given baseline. Reach, on the other hand, measures a user's range of motion in terms of the total volume of 3D space that can be accessed by the user (delimited by that user's arm length). Our 3D-focused algorithms help users understand where they need to focus their training to increase overall shoulder health.

### Velocity

Velocity is an important part of the full picture of shoulder health. If you can access your full volume of motion, but it takes you a very long time to move your shoulder or arm into position, your shoulder is not as healthy as it could be. Reach's approach to measuring velocity is simple-- it is the speed at which a user's controller is moving. 

### Accuracy

Accuracy is another important element of shoulder mobility. For functional and occupational rehab, users who are experiencing decreased shoulder health may be unable to reach into their back pockets, up onto high shelves, or complete other tasks that require complex movement of the shoulder. Accuracy is defined as the degree of closeness of a demonstrated movement of the arm or hand to a specified target in 3D space. You are accurate if your demonstrated motion is close to the true X,Y,Z coordinate value of a target. 






